but now you know better now you know
that it's our children who are at stake
drugs were part and parcel of our
operation there why isn't anybody of
authority saying anything about lines of
deceit cocaine and the White House a
production of the other America's radio
drugs their production distribution and
usage have become central to our
consciousness each and every day
newscasts feature major stories
concerning drugs front-page news paper
articles regarding cocaine Wars in
Colombia drug smuggling through Central
America and the impact these drugs are
having on our nation US forces invaded
the country of Panama we were told to
oust that country's drug dealing
dictator government actions that in the
past would have engendered widespread
opposition have become acceptable in the
fight against this latest threat my
sense is that it's not really about a
war on drugs it's a war on a war of
words a war of propaganda and a war to
obtain huge sums of money from Congress
Lewis wolf is co-editor of the
washington-based covert action
information bulletin the rhetoric that
has built up around this war on drugs as
it's called is is unbelievable there
there is an increasing willingness to
use all of the cards through all the
cards out and say that we are ready to
do anything including to chop away at
the rights of people in this country to
say nothing of course of the agenda that
we have in pursuance of this war in
other parts of the world the stakes
according to the Bush administration are
high the security of the nation and the
very well being of our children yet
admits the administration's
pronouncements some glaring
inconsistencies exist I think that you
have to look to what the real source of
this drug war is it is a public
relations gambit Christic institute lead
counsel Daniel Sheehan the operative
dimension of it is the billions of
dollars put into Central and Latin
America
in South America to try to help the
people who are protecting the Medellin
Cartel and that all of the activity
stateside here is primarily to
intimidate and frighten the middle class
to into believing that there is such an
aggressive policy against drugs that it
actually is threatening our civil
liberties here and then to ask them is
it okay for us to violate some of your
civil liberties in order to fight the
drug war questions that remain
unanswered cast real doubt on the nature
and goals of this war on drugs questions
like what is the relationship of the
Central Intelligence Agency with
international drug producers and
distributors were the Contras smuggling
cocaine and marijuana as a means of
financing the war against Nicaragua and
how is the drug flow to be abated if
agencies of the United States government
are involved directly or indirectly in
the drug trade well I think that any any
person would look at the the evidence
and couldn't come up with any any other
conclusion Tony ever gone a Costa Rican
based journalist has investigated
allegations of drugs being used to
finance the CIA war against Nicaragua
the Central Intelligence Agency set up a
network it wasn't as though that network
was set up and then later abandoned and
the cocaine people moved in the cocaine
people moved in right on the very first
day and the Central Intelligence Agency
was keeping close tabs on that network
all the time that the cocaine was moving
through the the southern front the Costa
Rican government is a very conservative
government Costa Rica is totally
dependent on the United States for aid
and it's it's very existence and it's
understandable that Costa Rica would be
which shows some reluctance to make too
tight a connection in this regard but
the various Costa Rican authorities both
the the Congress and the prosecutor's
office on the police came just about as
close as you could come
22 saying that the CIA was involved in
drug trafficking they did in fact in the
case of the Costa Rican Parliament and
then the cabinet banned for life various
ciaa people both official people I mean
like the head of the CIA the CIA station
chief and people in the National
Security Council are banned for life for
introducing cocaine trafficking to Costa
Rica that is something that has been
done in is something that's in effect to
this day the following two part series
lines of deceit will illuminate the
shadowy underbelly of the drug war
exposing the relationship between the
production and distribution of drugs and
the financing of covert operations by
agencies of the United States the series
will also examine the domestic impact of
the drug war and those whom federal
state and local law enforcement efforts
are being focused upon this program
uncovers the reality of drug smuggling
and its relationship to secret
government operations lines of deceit
cocaine and the White House
I'm Janet Perry this is the other
America's radio all of us agree that the
gravest domestic threat facing our
nation today is drugs drugs have
strained our faith in our system of
justice our courts our prisons our legal
system are stretched to the breaking
point the social costs of drugs are
mounting in short drugs are sapping our
strength is a nation on sep tember fifth
1989 president george bush in a speech
delivered to the nation via television
articulated his administration's edition
of the war on drugs turn on the evening
news or pick up the morning paper and
you'll see what some Americans know just
by stepping out their front door our
most serious problem today is cocaine
and in particular crack who's
responsible let me tell you straight out
everyone who uses drugs everyone who
sells drugs and everyone who looks the
other way as had presidents ronald
reagan in nineteen eighty-two and
richard nixon in 1971 president bush now
declared war on the drug problem Daniel
Sheehan is the chief counsel for the
washington-based Christic Institute
which since 1984 has been investigating
secret US government operations and
their impact chien traces the history of
this third declaration of a war on drugs
we are specifically repeating a series
of announced drug wars that you've
probably heard about I want to I want to
refresh your recollection about some of
the history of these drug wars on
January 28 of 1972 january twentieth
nineteen seventy-two president nixon
ordered a concentrated assault on the
street level pushers of heroin and he
set up a new office of drug
investigations and assigned a new drug
czar miles Ambrose in a particular
instance you may recall the war had to
be waged against heroin and opium which
was somehow mysteriously coming into the
country from Southeast Asia or you may
recall the Central Intelligence Agency
had a major secret war being waged in in
Cambodia in Thailand where
coincidentally happened to be the major
source of heroin in the world and in
March 28 of 1973 Richard Nixon announced
the creation of the new drug enforcement
administration and he brought
interesting an interesting group of
people into the government to work in
this new drug enforcement administration
he Howard hunt Egil Krogh and a number
of others that we later learned were not
really involved in fighting drugs ten
years after the original announcement of
January 28 of 1972 of the creation of
this major war on opium by Richard Nixon
10 years actually to the day on january
twentieth nineteen eighty-two President
Reagan announced a major concentrated
assault on the importation of cocaine
into the United States and he assigned a
South Florida task force to interdict
and stop his trafficking appointing as
the new drugs are George Bush then the
vice president to stop this and to
declare an all-out war on drugs now this
particular instance the the drug of
choice for the war was cocaine which
interestingly enough was being produced
out of the out of Colombia and being
brought into the United States right
from the very places that there was a
major secret war
being waged by the very same men who
would waged the war in Southeast Asia
theodore shackley Tom Klein's Richard C
chord and the others but in this
instance in an off-the-shelf standalone
and what was that other phrase
self-financing covert operation air
prize and so you can use a Ouija there
seems to be a certain repetition of this
program concentrating on the street
level pushers of drugs in his September
1989 address President Bush stated first
we are determined to enforce the law
this means tougher penalties Bush
proposed the enlargement of our criminal
justice system quote across the board
more prisons more jails more courts and
more prosecutors to implement this bush
earmarked more federal monies for
drug-related law enforcement activities
the President stated that demand for
drugs here in the United States must be
curbed adding that his domestic effort
would focus on dealers and the casual
users who according to the president are
the real source of the problem Christic
institute attorney Daniel Sheehan
between 1979 in 1989 the supply of
cocaine into the United States increased
by 1000% now this is the this is the
period of time you may recall during
which George Bush was the drugs are in
charge of stopping the flow of cocaine
in the United States and now he's
proposed in his new program that we set
up a program focusing only on the demand
side not the supply side but focusing on
the demand side which is designed after
a two year period to reduce the demand
for cocaine in the United States by ten
percent which would mean and as I said
no math wizard but this means that we'll
take this program twenty years to reduce
the flow of cocaine into the
states to be equal to that which was in
place when he became the drugs are now
you know if it weren't so sure weren't
so frightening this would be pretty
humorous you know on the face of it the
transparency of this is so is so
frightening that he's getting up in
saying this stuff directly to our face
is a little bit frightening since 1986
the Christic institute has been exposing
the cocaine smuggling network and its
relationship to secret government
operations again Daniel Sheehan the
source of transport into the United
States of this cocaine was directed
through from columbia into costa rica to
the farm of a man by the name of john
hall a millionaire american rancher who
owns some 50,000 acres of land in
northern costa rica and was this extreme
right wing man working with the local
chapter in costa rica of the world
anti-communist league and people
screamed and hollered zat oh no it's not
him and of course now john hall has been
indicted by Costa Rican government
officials for massive cocaine smuggling
is now a fugitive as we speak and yet
when we shared this information with
people he was so crazy that he actually
insisted upon suing our two plaintiffs
for libel and we went down and worked
with Otto Castro am an attorney Don
Costa Rican of course defeated John Hall
in the trial and proved but it was true
but it took a little while to get the
man indicted and we pointed out that
this this flow of cocaine was coming
through a company by the name of fidget
efika puntarenas in Costa Rica a shrimp
company frozen shrimp company that was
in fact run by a man named alberto nunez
and that they brought the cocaine into
the United States into Miami through a
company called the ocean hunter seafood
company owned by Francisco Paco China's
and we could go on it some length here
giving you the details of the names and
the places and how they transported it
and how they distribute it which is all
in the complaint and yet
when we pointed out that when the money
was paid to these people that were
involved in the operation they also were
flying the cocaine into the United
States directly on the airplanes that
were being used to smuggle the military
equipment out of the United States
illegally into Central America we told
where they were going at the ELA pongo
air base in El Salvador they were flying
on the John halls ranch they were
unloading the weapons and then they
would load 17 duffel bags full of
cocaine 600 kilo loads into the United
States and that the money that they were
being paid for the transport for this
cocaine was being used to purchase
military equipment for the Contras that
the main one of the men supervising the
operation was a man than Ronald Joseph
Martin who owned the Tamiami gunshot in
Miami he had a partner in Honduras a man
by the name of Mario del amico this is
the now fairly infamous a guns for drugs
supermarket in Honduras we pointed all
of this out and we were criticized st.
whoa you know you probably got some kind
of jerk for a source who doesn't know
what they're talking about and they're
fantasizing this and you don't have
sources that are reliable turns out that
the sources were Ramon miglia and
Rodriguez the chief bookkeeper for the
Medellin Cartel not a bad source Luis
blando the chief of intelligence for
Manuel Noriega Panama jorge morales the
chief pilot for the Medellin Cartel
pilots Michael Tolliver Gary Betsan or
Geraldo Duran direct pilots who gave
dates flight numbers tail numbers of the
airplane coordinates of where they were
landing how much drugs were on the plane
another man but they would Jack Terrell
who worked for the civilian military
assistance group of Tom Posey we set
these people forth and we've told the
American public about this and yet
people still say that well if that's
true if this latest of the series of
charges
that were made by the Christic institute
back in may of nineteen eighty six is
true why isn't anybody of authority
saying anything about it and finally
president bush stressed the need to
quote look beyond our borders to where
the cocaine has grown and processed bush
designated three and Ian Nations
Colombia Peru and Bolivia as the focus
of the administration's for an effort
our strategy allocates more than a
quarter of a billion dollars for next
year in military and law enforcement
assistance for the three and Ian nations
of Columbia Bolivia and Peru this will
be the first part of a five-year two
billion dollar program to counter the
producers the traffickers and the
smugglers the military who are down
there who are going to be getting this
65 million dollar emergency aid and an
eventual two billion dollars are in fact
directly involved in protecting the
Medellin Cartel Christic Institute lead
counsel Daniel Sheehan the president
announced that the armed forces of these
three Latin American countries would
immediately receive 65 million dollars
in emergency assistance assistance
granted to the militaries of Colombia
Peru and Bolivia three armed forces that
allegedly are linked with the Medellin
Cartel the New York Times on august 31st
1989 reported that regarding colombia
quote the cartels could not impose their
reign of terror without the direct
cooperation of high-level military
authorities in that country The Times
report asserted that the drug cartel
leaders are quote part of the oleg
arcing that rules colombia they have
formed alliances with the leaders of the
military yet in spite of this and
numerous other reports President Bush is
seeking to provide two billion dollars
over the next five years to the military
forces
these three nations not you sort of
wonder I mean does the president the
United States not know these facts that
the very people were running those
militaries are directly in alliance with
the leaders of the ship of the Medean
cartel Christic institute attorney
Daniel Sheehan so you ask yourself did
did the president miss this point did he
fail to understand that the the very
people he's talking about sending the
military aid to are the ones who have
been working with the leadership of the
Medean cartel and protecting them
because the Medean cartel leaders have
been intelligent enough to know what the
interest of the military the right-wing
military is and that is to exterminate
the progressive political leadership in
central in south america not a new
undertaking we might recall in fact it
was the very objective of their policies
under the Reagan administration Pedro
Alcantara Haren is a leading member of
Colombia's Patriotic Union Party the u.p
is the legal party that resulted from
the nineteen eighty-five agreement
between the Colombian government and the
Revolutionary Armed Forces or the FARC
the party represents the reintegration
of FARC members into columbian politics
is really interested in if not uh is not
combating drug trafficking the United
States is using this moment this
particular historic moment to do several
things first image of incapability of
the Colombian political class to
confront this very serious trouble since
its inception in 1985 over 1,000 you p
members have been assassinated by
right-wing paramilitary forces Alcantara
is skeptical of United States intentions
the United States foreign policy
strengthen the Colombian military
because the ring
I mean in in the line of thought of the
United States military policy is not
drug trafficking it is to develop a
low-intensity conflict method that may
stop to a certain extent the race of
deep popular Democratic movements and
any left intent to develop into new
parties like we have done no this is
real Richie what's happening now in 1989
a US Army Colonel published an article
regarding the drug war and its role in
military planning for Latin America
again Christic institute council Daniel
Sheehan I think the the most telling
single piece of it has been set forth by
Colonel John waggle Steen who is an
advisor to the State Department on the
so-called drug war scenario he in the
January issue of the military review has
stated quite bluntly that he believes
that if the Defense Department can
succeed in melding together in the minds
of the American public the need to place
military troops in Latin America to
fight the drug war with the authority to
use these troops to fight against the
insurgents in various countries that are
coming from the left peasant community
that they will be able to overcome this
major effort to cut back on the military
funding for the Pentagon he says it
quite explicitly in the military review
when you you see even on the front page
of the New York Times for example on
April 22nd the announcement by the Bush
administration to send the Green Berets
in to northern Peru to train six
brigades to undertake a major push
against the drug
[ __ ] and by the way the shining path
you're beginning to get a very clear
idea of what's going on I think that one
Mendez from America's watch has has put
it very clearly in an article that he
wrote in The New York Times actually
back in October of 1989 the month before
President Bush came out with his war on
drugs that he announced on sep tember
fifth of 89 one Mendez talked very
specifically about how it was perfectly
clear that the military officials in the
andean nations of Columbia in Brazil
Bolivia and Peru were in fact a major
part of the problem with regard to the
drug smuggling and he pointed out in
some detail the direct evidence
interfacing military commanders with
protecting the drug smugglers down in
those countries even to the point of
pointing out that the paramilitary death
squads that the Medellin Cartel I had at
their disposal were engaged for the most
part in exterminating progressive
political leadership in those countries
that they were responsible for over a
thousand assassinations of members of
the Patriotic Union Party for example
and and it was it was though this
information were never communicated when
Bush came on in September of 1989 and
announced that he was going to be
sending several hundred million dollars
as the beginning of a two and a half
billion dollar military aid program to
the Indian military to allegedly fight
the drug war it's very very clear that
what we really see here is a tempted
rationale somewhat blatantly set forth
by waggle Steen in the military review
to cover a war against the poor a war
against the peasantry a war against the
the organizers in the base communities
throughout Latin America that have
continued to struggle to try to set up
some methodology of overcoming the
oligarchy that runs those countries in
direct union with the military
commanders of those countries who've
been trained for the most part in the
United States and clearly financed with
the United States military aid
this has been lines of deceit cocaine in
the White House a special feature from
the other America's radio this program
was written produced by Cory Dubin
executive producer eric schwartz special
thanks to eduardo cohen and ralph
steiner the music of grupo rise in
tooele money and banda Tapani courtesy
monitor records the program was mixed
and mastered at coyote radio in Santa
Barbara audio cassettes of this two-part
series lines of deceit are available for
nine dollars from the other America's
radio p.o.box 85 Santa Barbara
California 9310 to or for a free
catalogue of available programs right to
p.o box 85 Santa Barbara California 9310
to funding for this presentation was
provided by radio listeners throughout
the Americas
I'm Janet Perry this is the other
America's radio
there is a gigantic connection between
CIA operations and drug smuggling in the
world the CIA is probably the largest
drug dealer on earth and has been for
many many years well you don't have to
be an out or Einstein to know that
they're using the drug war for other
purposes and on other agendas which have
early to do with stopping girls lines of
deceit cocaine and the White House a
production of the other America's radio
drugs drug smuggling cocaine crack
heroin drugs and activities that have
become synonymous with different regions
of the world Southeast Asia Latin
America the Caribbean Mexico and the
United States drug production and
distribution and the regions where these
activities occur have received the
sustained attention of the North
American people the gravest domestic
threat facing our nation today is drugs
ironically each of the region's
identified are also areas where agencies
of the United States have been involved
in large scales secret operations the
emerging picture is one of covert us
Wars financed by the prophets incurred
from drug smuggling the very drugs now
surfacing on the streets of our cities
the same drugs the President Bush
declared war upon drugs that according
to the president pose an urgent threat
to our children and our nation this in
fact is a program which is consciously
designed to facilitate the continued
flow of cocaine
to the united states where it's
threatening our children not only in our
high schools and colleges but in our
junior high schools and in our grade
schools in part 2 of this two-part
series we trace the history of drugs and
secret government operations
illuminating the shadowy underworld of
drugs and the financing of covert
operations I'm Jane Perry this is the
other America's radio lines of deceit
cocaine and the White House as the
shadowy underworld of international drug
dealing is illuminated certain
relationships and agreements have seen
the light of day revelations of secret
operations in Southeast Asia provided
the first glimpse of an ongoing
relationship between agencies of the
United States and international drug
producers and distributors Lewis wolf is
one of the editors of the
washington-based covert action
information bulletin throughout the
Vietnam War and in fact since World War
two there has been a network through
which the CIA was working which was tied
linked and beholden to the CIA and
network which included itself CIA
employees it was very clear to me at the
time in Southeast Asia and in laos in
the 1960s that drugs were part and
parcel of our operation there I remember
Air America pilots telling me at the
time that they were very busy carrying
drugs in their aircraft and of course
the the old saying was we just fly the
plane we don't care what's in a cargo
area air America as everyone knows was a
CIA owned created and and run
proprietary that of course was a
prototype of
of these kinds of operations since the
close of the Vietnam War revelations of
secret CIA operations in Vietnam Laos
and Cambodia have surfaced in 1973
Alfred McCoy in his groundbreaking
expose the politics of heroin in
Southeast Asia detailed the relationship
of drug production and distribution with
United States secret operations
according to McCoy quote every aspect of
these intelligence missions was somehow
involved with the logistics of the
Burmese opium trade bill shop is with
the new york-based Institute for media
analysis he also Co edits the covert
action information bulletin there is a
gigantic connection between CIA
operations and drug smuggling in the
world and a number of the reports which
have been written the books you refer to
essentially make the point that the CIA
is probably the largest drug dealer on
earth and has been for many many years
even larger than the the French the
Corsican mafia or the Italian mafia or
the Golden Triangle warlords all of whom
are organizations with which the CIA has
worked and ever since at least the the
end of World War two in the very early
days of the CIA when it was taking over
from OSS they've had deep ties with the
drug smugglers particularly originally
the heroin routes that went through
Europe and then subsequently during a
time of the Vietnam War with the routes
that went through Southeast Asia what
happened in the 60s as well as the
development of the Southeast Asian
connection was the use of people and
groups with whom the CIA had established
political relations in the drug business
in order to finance some of those
operations the primary example being the
cuban exile community the CIA helped and
worked with the cuban exile groups out
of florida
in their building up an involvement in
drug traffic in order to raise funds for
the anti cuban operation Christic
institute attorney Daniel Sheehan well
right right since the very end of World
War two when when General Ty Lee who was
the chief of intelligence for the
coolant on the so-called nationalist
Chinese fighting against the the
Socialists in in China and were driven
out of china by monster tongue into
burma the first CIA station chief for
burma was Jackson globe who sat
overlooking the whole reconstruction of
the poppy fields in the heroin industry
that was being smuggled through the
Corsican mafia into Havana Cuba through
the mob and filtered into the United
States for purposes of financing weapons
for the coolant on in their so-called
anti-communist crusade the same thing
happened with the Nazis who fled to
Latin America they became very much
involved in the cocaine industry down
there carlos lehder a the son of an
acknowledged Nazi Varinder lots the
pilot for Daniel o to bear in in Costa
Rica's father certified World War two
Nazi war criminal this is the man that
flew Rafael Quintero cruise out of
Mexico after he was engaged in the
torture murder of Camarena these men are
the struggling effort of a of the past
generation to pass on to their sons a
their set of values there are not many
of them that have passed that have
really accepted these kind of raw Nazi
values they're not the real source of
the danger the source of the danger are
men like theodore shackley in jackson
glob and see court who have out of a
tirely misguided sense of loyalty to
their country in their their values have
begun to crush and exterminate those
values and when in fact they began to
perceive themselves as being abandoned
by their governments and their mission
was no longer being funded
by democratic Lee arrived at decision in
fact they were being formally prohibited
from their activities they then began to
move back to the same source of
financing that the cumin Tong had the
opium and the the cocaine narcotics
because this is a coven of man involved
in that particular industry who will
opportunistically seize upon any type of
rationale for continuing their highly
lucrative business and they have seized
upon the the highly vulnerable man in
this group I've been talking about of
the shackles and see cords and Cline's
and Hakeem etc as they've become more
and more fearful of being ostracized and
eliminated from the from the scene they
have desperately established a major
alliance now with these narcotics
traffickers to fund their operations
which are being prohibited by a new
generation of American voters but
certainly not not unique in agency
history the inspector general in the
case of Laos went in studied the
situation after the publication of the
book politics of heroin by McCoy they
were forced to take action former CIA
case officer Ralph mcgehee Ralph McGee
he spent 25 years with the Central
Intelligence Agency from the beginning
of our effort there in 61 273 they had
ignored the transport of heroin and
these air America planes by the moment
tribesmen linking their I at it the
CIA's inspector general as it came out
in the Church Committee report said yes
indeed that the that heroin had been
carried on Air America airplanes the
amounts that were being moved massive
because planes were flying all over the
country of laos NER flying into bangkok
they're flying in to adorn their flying
into Saigon and just throughout the area
and there was absolutely no check on any
of the material was being carried and
that's how a lot of the drugs
moved out of Laos into the United States
and into the markets in Southeast Asia
it's almost axiomatic any paramilitary
operation in an area where drugs that
were here on our puppies are grown
you're going to have drugs being shipped
by the people that we're supporting in
1985 the Drug Enforcement Agency said
that the majority of heroin coming into
the eastern United States with coming
from the assets we were supporting in
Afghanistan we know earlier the
operations in Thailand in in Burma that
much of the drugs were being moved by
general policy in Thailand that the CIA
was supporting and of course earlier
with the KMT elements in Burma we we
placed them in in Burma to invade China
under the supposition the intelligence
that if they if the KMT invaded China
then then the people would rise up in
protest and join them and overthrow the
government of course that was the
intelligence was ludicrous at best well
the the camp tears went into China a
couple of times they got their selves
beaten up fairly badly and they moved
back into Burma and took over the drug
traffic and we will out all this to go
on in 1980 another important expose was
published regarding secret intelligence
operations in their relationship to drug
production and distribution the book the
great heroin co-authored by Danish
journalist Heinrich Kruger arrives at
some startling conclusions again bill
shop of the Institute for media analysis
the thesis you're talking about which
most recently was was put in Henry
Krugers book the great heroin coup does
make a pretty compelling case for the
the first of all the takeover of the
Drug Enforcement Agency by CIA personnel
and CIA veterans many of whom were
people who were involved in operations
where where drug smugglers were used and
drug traffic was used and it was a
pretty classic
ample of setting up a group of foxes to
guard the chicken coops and a large
number of the people involved in the
international end of the drug
enforcement agency and its related
agencies and the White House Task Force
in all our people who have been
intimately involved in the other side
and the thesis of the book and one which
with which we agree is that at least a
certain branch or wing of the CIA is up
to its neck in the international heroin
traffic this relationship was again
identified in July of 1990 in a Los
Angeles California courtroom during
testimony in the case regarding the
murder of DEA agent Enrique Camarena
according to one witness those who
allegedly ordered comedy Ana's murder
believed that they would be immune from
US law is a trade-off for past support
for the Nicaraguan Contras the CIA again
and again steps in to stop prosecution
of key people covert action information
bulletin co-editor Lewis wolf for
example Rafael chichi Quintero whose
name has come up very recently in the
case of Enrique Camarena in Los Angeles
and a number of other cases of people
involved with the Contras in Nicaragua
the DEA issued a public press release
last year calling on the Mujahideen in
Afghanistan supported by the CIA to stop
exporting opium to the United States
it's interesting however to note that in
the last year a year and a half we are
witnessing an expansion and in a real
growth industry some have called it the
narco industrial complex there is for
example new information that two
gentlemen who have a long career each of
them in covert operations and special
operations in low intensity conflicts
are now involved in the so-called drug
and I speak of Claire George who was the
former deputy director of operations of
the CIA a 25-year veteran of the CIA and
the other gentleman is Paul Gorman who
was the former commander of the Southern
Command a man who is known to be one of
the primary architects of low-intensity
warfare doctrine and these men are now
contracting through a company in
Virginia to help peru in its operations
against drug trafficking well you don't
have to be an overt Einstein to know
that they're using the drug war for
other purposes and other agendas which
have very little to do with stopping
drugs
you
signs of deceit cocaine and the White
House produced by the other America's
radio
in 1981 the newly elected Reagan
administration undertook a major secret
operation in Central America the goal of
this fledgling action was the overthrow
of the sandanista government in
nicaragua this fascinating covert action
which is unique almost in history and
being open on both ends former
high-ranking CIA official john stockwell
we have no question whatsoever what
Washington is doing its admitted and
debated very publicly the Contra program
the Contra aid program the president
admitting it everybody around him if I
tried for example to talk to you about
the CIA's program today and Chad or in
Theo Pia somebody could say well how
does he know you know is that true is
the US government really doing any of
that in Ngogo we know what the US
government is doing in pursuit of this
goal the Reagan administration
established a large support network for
the Contras who were the centerpiece of
this covert action in the beginning
financing came from a willing Congress
and administration discretionary monies
however by 1984 Congress became
reluctant amidst charges of massive
human rights violations by contra forces
as administration monies were depleted
and Congress stopped the flow the
Contras and their handlers at the CIA
apparently turned to drugs smuggling as
a means of financing the war against
Nicaragua during the past year and a
half there have been three things that
have happened in Costa Rica that have
shed light on the connection between the
Contras and the CIA and the meta-gene
cartel and drug trafficking Tony ever
gone a costa rican based journalist has
written extensively on the Contras the
CIA and cocaine trafficking through
Costa Rica the first was that the Costa
Rican Parliament the Congress formed a
commission to look into the problem of
drug trafficking they carried out an
investigation very much like the
Congress might in the United States they
held hearings they subpoenaed witnesses
they had a few investigators in the
field they gathered up testimony from
other places and did a very thorough
study and at the end they wrote a report
which concluded that the problem of drug
trafficking in Costa Rica is basically a
problem of cocaine moving from Colombia
through Costa Rica onto the United
States and that this problem did not
exist before the introduction of
Nicaraguan Contras to Costa Rica and
they went into great detail to explain
how in the early 80s the central
intelligence agency the National
Security Council and basically over
north network sought to set up a
so-called southern front for the
conscious and they set up the logistics
network there was necessary to support
that southern front they build air
strips they set up training bases they
bribed Costa Rican officials and when
they needed pilots to fly the planes to
bring the arms to the Contras they
turned to their friend and longtime
associate and partner general Noriega
and general Noriega of course supplied
them with drug pilots and the Costa
Rican Parliament said that the after a
very short period of time the planes
that were bringing the arms to the
Contras began returning to the United
States with cocaine and that gradually
the cocaine became the paramount reason
for the existence of the southern front
and the Contras in the war they are
waging against the government of
Nicaragua really became a secondary
reason they went on to explained it now
the the Contras are gone but the cocaine
trafficking is still there and they made
a recommendation and that recommendation
was then adopted by the full Congress
and the Costa Rican cabinet that a
number of people be banned for life from
entering Costa Rica and those people
our John Poindexter Oliver North Robert
Owen Richard C chord the former US
ambassador to Costa Rica lowest Hamm's
John Hall and the former CIA's CIA
station chief joe fernandez and those
people are now banned for life from
entering costa rica the next thing that
happened was that the Costa Rican police
who have to say though he's been
reluctant to take this problem by the
horns finally in the face of
overwhelming evidence opened up an
investigation centered on allegations
that John Howe was involved in drug
trafficking and arms trafficking they
carried out an investigation and finally
concluded and brought charges against
whole for arms trafficking and drug
trafficking he was then arrested he
spent several weeks in jail he was
finally granted bail and immediately
jumped bail and was flown out of Costa
Rica to the United States and is now a
fugitive in Indiana according to a
vergin the third event was a new
investigation by the Costa Rican
prosecutor into the 1984 la pega bombing
the bombing was an assassination attempt
against Eden pastora one of the southern
front contra commanders ever gone sheds
new light on the motivations behind the
assassination attempt the final thing
that happened was that six years after
almost six years after the LaPenta
bombing the prosecutor's office in Costa
Rica the equivalent of the Attorney
General's Office ordered that an
investigation of the bombing be carried
out but an investigation that would look
into not just the bombing but also why
the bombing was not investigated
originally that investigation turned up
a lot of information about drug
trafficking first of all it concluded
that the bombing was carried out by a
cell within the Nicaraguan Contras with
the help and direct support of agents of
the Central Intelligence Agency a
particularly John hole
and particularly for eBay vidal
cuban-american from Miami with close
links to drug trafficking for many years
they concluded in their report that the
well penca bombing had a lot to do with
drugs they said that it was not only an
attempt to put pastora out of the way
because of the divisions that he was
causing within the Contra movement but I
was also an attempt to put pastora out
of the way because he was seen as an
impediment to plans by the meta-gene
court cocaine cartel to just take over
the entire southern front so the drugs
played a key role in the lehenga bombing
as well in February of 1987 the United
States Senate Foreign Relations
Committee ordered an expanded
investigation into allegations of drug
running by elements within the
Nicaraguan Contras the Foreign Relations
Committee assigned the investigation to
the Subcommittee on terrorism narcotics
and international operations of which
senator Kerry is the chairperson while
the more prominent iran-contra select
committee failed to address the question
of drugs the Kerry subcommittee
conducted 14 days of public hearings on
this issue as the iran-contra Select
Committee captured national and
international attention the Kerry
subcommittee conducted an investigation
which produced what can only be called
startling conclusions so you say well
gee you look at the president's
announcement he said who is it that's
responsible for this all of those who
turn a blind eye and what are we going
to do about it we're going to focus upon
the low-level pushers and drug salesman
so you sort of wonder me he may have
read the report and not understood it
the report concluded that quote in some
instances foreign policy considerations
interfered with the USS ability to fight
the war on drugs foreign policy
priorities towards the Bahamas Honduras
Nicaragua and Panama at times delayed
halted or interfered with
US law enforcement's efforts to keep
narcotics out of the United States US
officials involved in Central America
failed to address the drug issue for
fear of jeopardizing the war efforts
against Nicaragua this according to the
conclusions of the US Senate Foreign
Relations Subcommittee on terrorism
narcotics and international operations
Christic institute attorney Daniel
Sheehan there can no longer be any
reasonable doubt that this is not an
accident that the entire policy of
trying to direct our attention upon the
demand side rather than the supply to
focus only on the low-level pushers in
the street vendors of this stuff and to
specifically refuse to do anything to
get the cartel leaders and to instead
send billions of dollars down to the
military commanders who are working
directly with the drug cartel is not a
laughing matter what we're dealing with
here is the boldest type of over
deception
that the American people have ever been
exposed
lines of deceit cocaine and the White
House a special feature presentation of
the other America's radio this program
was written and produced by Corey Dubin
executive producer eric schwartz special
thanks to Eduardo Cohen and Ralph
Steiner the music of grupo Reyes Fonda
Tapani and inti illimani courtesy
monitor records this program was mixed
and mastered at coyote radio in Santa
Barbara funding for this presentation
was provided by radio listeners
throughout the Americas I'm Jane Perry
this is the other America's radio